English Mr Jems

https://practicepteonline.com/cambridge-ielts-1-13-tests/

1. i watch tv every night
2. i am hungry
3. she is smart
4. she watches tv every night
5. she is beautiful
6. he plays piano
7. they play piano
8. they are talented
 
SEDANG
 
1. i am an employee
 i work from Monday to Friday
 i am working
 
2. they are athletes
 they practice twice a week
 they are practicing
 
3. she is a teacher
 she teaches English
 she is teaching
 
1. He is sick
 he has been sick for 3 days
 he drinks aspirin one a day
 he has eaten
 he is sleeping
 
2. i am in Bali
 i have been in Bali for one week
 i visit Bali twice a year
 i have visited tabah Lot and Ubud
 i am visiting Kutai now

1. i am in the library now
 i have been in library since 2 hours ago
 i read in the library every weekend
 i am reading a book about health
 i have been reading three books so far
 i have read books about education and politics
 
1. he is a businessman
 he sells a lot of products
 he has sold five products today
 he is explaining  a product
 he has been doing this for two years
 he has been in this business for two years
 
1. they are lazy, they watch tv every day
2. he is diligent, he studies every day
3. he is waiting, he has been waiting since morning
4. she is tired, she is sleeping
5. i have finished, i am sleepy
6. she has been playing since morning
7. i am busy, i am working
8. he is angry and he has gone
9. i am at home and i am alone
10. we have been fasting for  a week
 
1. i know you
2. you know me
3. we know them
4. they know us
5. he knows her
6. she knows him
 
1. we need them and they nedd us
2. i like her and she likes me
3. he is looking at you
4. we are here for him
5. she has been looking for you for one hour
6. i have texted her many times
7. you have disappointed us
8. we are talking with them
9. he has called me, he is in bandung, he has been in Bandung since yesterday
10. they are here and they are studying with us
 
1. Tia and Ita are absent today, they are sick
2. Iwan is absent today, he is sick, he is sleeping
3. Ria has graduated, she works at a bank
4. Nia and Roi are in Jakarta and Rais is in bandung
5. Yuri is studying, Ana and Nia are watching TV
6. Dani is sick, he has been sick for three days
7. Rita is watching, he has been watching since morning
8. Yuli has bought a necklace, it is good
9. Dian is wearing earrings, they are good
10. A bird is singing, it sings every day, i like it
 
1. He is in Bali
2. he has been in Bali since last week
3. we study every Monday and Thursday
4. we are studying 4 main sentences
5. we have been studying 4 main sentences for 5 minutes
6. we have studied Tenses
 
1. those flowers are so beautiful
2. this book is very nice, i like it
3. i have sent this message to her
4. Andi has received that letter
5. Nia and 1 are cleaning this room
6. iwan is fixing that old car
7. that old man is still strong
8. that black dog barks every night
9. they have bought this old building
10. that man has been working in this mining company for two years
 
1. that man is very friendly, he lives in that big house
2. those people are very friendly, i meet them in this park every day
3. that red flower is so beautiful, i like that red flower because that red flower smells good
4. those flowers are beautiful, i like them because those they smell good
 
1. Anwar has read your message
2. our friend has been waiting for us
3. my new HP is broken
4. that is Mira's Laptop
5. those are her belongings
6. this is my friend's car
7. i have deleted our old pictures
8. risky likes his new hair
9. her parents are talking with them
10. my father's friend has bought that big house
 
1. Rio's sister is beautiful, i like her eyes
2. My uncle is so handsome, rita likes her smile
3. that big elephant uses its long trunk for grab a food
4. those small elephants use their long trunk for grab a food
 
1. this is mine, yours is over there
2. rina has taken hers, this is yours
3. my picture is better than your picture
4. mine is better than yours
5. this is ours, and that is theirs
6. they are comparing mine with his       
7. this is iwan's money and that is Dian's
8. this laptop is mine, and that laptop is yours
9. these books are mine, and those books are yours
10. that black pen is yours, mine is out of ink
 
1. i have found the money
2. they are talking with her
3. i have read the book and i like it
4. ria is preparing her speech
5. we have been waiting for her for 2 hours
6. the snake has swallowed its prey alive
7. armand has called his mother and talked with her
8. i like rio's car, especially the color
9. rio and his friend are watching a movie, the movie is about an adventure
10. ohh the movie is very inspiring, 1 have watched the movie
 
Kalimat Negatif / Negative Sentence (Bagian 1)
 
1. he does not understand but he is not stupid
2. i am not like them, i am not arrogant
3. they are not afraid, and they do not care
4. i dont know her and she does not live here
5. he is not alone, and he do not need them 
 
1. i know them although they are not friends
2. i have told him that i am not Andi's brother
3. Dani is not a soldier but a policeman
4. that is not my money, it is Iwan's money
5. i am not yours, and you are not mine
 
1. mereka tidak tertarik
2. mereka bukan guru
3. saya bukan pemain sepak bola
4. saya tidak tuli
5. dia tidak sendirian
6. dia bukan pemiliknya
 
1. i am not close with Ria, i dont know much about her because i am not her friend
2. he is not a musician, he does not understand about music, so he is not interested in your music
3. agus and rais are not here, and they do not work here because they are not our employees
 
Kalimat Negatif bagian 2
 
1. he is not using your laptop, he is using mine
2. they are not studying, they are watching tv
3. i am not talking about you
 
1. they are not practicing now because they don't practice every night
2. i am not teaching, i don't teach every Thursday and Saturday
3. he doesn't study on Sunday so he is not studying now, he is sleeping
 
1. we have been here since morning but they are have not arrived
2. i have explained everything but he has not understood
3. he has been to Bali, i have not been to Bali
4. i have told Mita but i have not told Dian
5. andi and iwan have done but rita has not done
 
1. Go home
2. close the door
3. be brave
4. be polite
5. be a man
6. be yourself
 
1. dont be sad and don't cry
2. be honest, dont lie to me
3. dont worry, be happy
4. be patient, dont be angry
5. come on time tomorrow, dont be late
 
1. i am not her because i am not crazy
2. he does not know, he has not watched that new movie
3. let him alone, dont disturb him
4. i have never met her
5. i have not seen her since morning
6. dont use that laptop, it is not yours
7. try again, dont be despair
8. call her now, dont be afraid
9. i dont know much about her
10. they are not doing their homework
 
1. that red bag is not mine
2. dont blame her, she does not know anything
3. bring the flash tomorrow, i need it
4. he has not returned the book
5. i have not eaten, but am not hungry
6. dont trust that girl, she is a liar
7. turn off the light and lock the door
8. i am not thinking about it
9. he doesn't agree but he is not angry, dont worry, he is not them, you have not known him
10. i dont agree but i am not angry, dont be scared, i am not them, he hasn't known me
 
DAY 10
 
1.  Are you sure?
2. does iwan live here?
3. am i late?
4. is she your friend?
5. do you know him?
 
1. is your father sleeping?
2. are your friends talking about politics?
3. are we waiting for her?
 
1. has he come back from Jakarta?
2. have you been to Bali?
 
1. is that red car yours?
2. does your father work at that company?
3. have you read my message?
4. has he called you back?
5. are they talking about that again?
6. are those books yours?
7. are you okay?
8. is he holding a something?
9. does he know about this?
10. do you know this man?
 
1. yes, he is sleeping / yes he is
2. yes, they are talking about politics. yes, they are
3. yes, we are / yes, we are waiting for him
 
1. yes, he has come back from Jakarta / no, he has not come back from Jakarta.
2. yes, i have been to Bali / no, i have not been to Bali
3. yes, i have told him / no, i have not told him
 
1. yes, it is. no it isn't
2. yes, he does / no, he doesn't
3. yes, i have / no, i haven't
4. yes, he has / no, he hasn't
5. yes, they are, no, the aren't
6. yes, they are / no, they aren't
7. yes, i am / no, i am not
8. yes, he is / no, he isn't
9. yes, he does / no, he doesn't
10. yes, i do / no, i don't
 
1.  do you like football? yes, i do / no, i dont
2. do you have a pet? yes i do / no, i dont 
3. have you found it?  
4. does she have a boyfriend?
5. have she eated?
6. do you have a plan?
7. have you been abroad?
8. do you live here?
9. are you happy?
10. is he from Bandung?
 
1. i play guitar and he plays drum
2. he is sick, he has been sick for a week
3. they are  debating, they have been debating for 2 hours
4. i like it but she doesn't like it
5. trust me, i am not lying
6. he has not come, dont wait for him
7. he doesn't have money, and he has not eaten
8. does he have money? has he eaten?
9. are you listening to me?
10. do you have Rani's number? you have called her
 
1. andi is sleeping, ria and rani are watching tv
2. when i came last night, andi was sleeping and he had been sleeping for 2 hours
3. i have been working in this company since 2 years ago
4. i came at 10 yesterday, but they had gone
5. you are late, they have locked the door
6. i came late yesterday, the had  locked the door
7. i have been here since morning
8. i had been here before they came
9. i saw Nia yesterday, he was sitting alone in the park
10. before the police arrived, they had gone
 
1. i wasn't there last night
2. when i came, she was not sleeping, she was playing outside
3. when he offered me this job last year, i had not graduated
 
1. Were you there last night?
2. when you came, was she sleeping?
3. when he offered you this job last year, had you graduated?
 
1. when i came yesterday, they had been studying for 30 minutes
2. if you come at 9 tonight, they will have been studying for 1 hour
3. they are playing PS now, they have been playing since morning
4. i am studying, rina is sleeping, roy ang ira are watching 
5. when dian came yesterday, i was studying, rina was sleeping, roy and ira were watching
6. if you come at 8 tonight, i will be studying, rina will be sleeping, roy and ira will be watching
7.  you are late, andi has left, if you come at this time tomorrow, he will have left too, so come earlier tomorrow
8. i was late yesterday, when i arrived, he had left
9. he is always late, yesterday he was late, tomorrow he will be late
10. i will be in Bali tonight, now i am in Japan, yesterday i was in US
11. he calls me almost everyday, yesterday he called me in the morning, tomorrow he will call me again
12. i trust him
13. i trusted him but not anymore now
 
1. where are you?
2. where did you go yesterday? who did you go with?
3. what is she doing? is she sleeping?
4. why was she angry last night? did you hurt her?
5. why are you laughing? am i funny?
6. how is your mother? is she fine?
7. who is she waiting for? is she waiting for me?
8. what time will you go tomorrow? whose car will you use?
9. which shoes does he like? which shoes do you like?
10. where does she live? how long have you known her? how long have you been friends?
 
1. who wants money?
2. who agrees with me?
3. how many people agree with me?
4. what makes you sad?
5. which train goes to Jakarta?
6. who has registered?
7. how many people have registered?
 
1. who doesn't want money?
2. who doesn't agree with me?
3. how many people dont agree with me?
4. what doesn't make you sad?
5. which train doesn't go to Jakarta?
6. who hasn't registered?
7. how many people haven't registered?
 
1. who accompanies you every day?
2. who accompanied you last night?
3. who will accompany you tonight?
 
1. who doesn't accompany you every day?
2. who didn't accompany you last night?
3. who will not accompany you tonight?
 
Day 17
 
1. is he teaching? / isnt he teaching?
2. has he called Rani? / hasn't he called Rani?
3. are they at school? / aren't they at school?
4. do the study math? / dont they study math?
5. does he study math? / doesn't he study math?
 
1. have you told them? / haven't you told them?
2. do you know him? / do you not know him?
3. is that beautiful girl your friend? isn't that beautiful girl your friend?
4. does your father know about this? / doesn't your father know this?
5. is that old car yours? / isn't that old car yours
6. are you interested? / are you not interested?
7. is she sleeping? / is she not sleeping? / isn't he sleeping?
 
DAY 18 
1. he is sick, isn't he?
2. he is working, isn't he?
3. he has gone, hasn't he?
4. they have arrived, haven't they?
5. they live here, dont they?
6. he studies every day, doesn't he?
 
1. you know him, dont you?
2. rio isn't at home, is he?
3. you are okay, aren't you?
4. the plane has landed, hasn't it?
5. your mother is teaching, isn't she?
6. you have called her, haven't you?
7. you dont know about this, do you?
8. rio and ryan haven't cleaned it, have they?
9. i am taller, aren't i?
10. that black jacket is yours, isn't it?
 
1. do you like her?
2. does she like you?
3. why do you like her?
4. why does she like you?
5. who likes her?
6. who do you like?
7. dont you like her?
8. doesn't she like you?
9. why do you not like her?
10. why does she not like you?
11. you like her, dont you?
12. she likes you, doesn't she?
 
DAY 19
 
1. you must hurry or you will be late
2. come on.. you can do it, you can be a champion
3. if you dont call her now, she will be mad
4. you can call me anytime you want
5. dont worry, i will come
6. you must be careful or you can fall
7. you had better go home now
8. dont touch that animal, it will bite you
9. be patient, everything will be okay
10. you should go now, she has been waiting for you
 
1. may i borrow your car? i will not be long
2. dont worry, they will not hurt you
3. he cant walk, can you help her?
4. you should go now before he comes
5. what should we do? help us
6. what can you do for your country?
7. she will come soon, you must be patient
8. you had better be quite, dont talk
9. she will be very busy tomorrow, so she will not come
10. you should go home now, she is waiting
 
Day 20
 
1. i can predict the future
2. i could do 100 push ups ten years ago
3. i cant come tonight
4. i couldn't sleep  last night
 
1. could i use those laptops? you can use them
2. may i come to your house tonight? you may come anytime
 
1. you better not lie to her
2. you should honest to her
3. you could come to her house
4. you could talk to her parents
 
1. could you close the door?
2. would you explain it again?
3. could you be quite?
4. would you marry me?
 
DAY 21
 
1. you should call her now
2. you should have called her last night
3. they should have woken up earlier this morning
4. you should not have been late this morning
5. i should not have come last night
 
DAY 20
 
1. He can predictthe future
2. he could do 100 push ups ten years ago
3. i can't come tonight
4. i couldn't sleep last night
 
1. Could we use those laptops? yes, you can use them 
2.  may i come to your house tonight? yes, you may come anytime
 
1. You had better not lie to her
2. You should be honest to her
3. You could come to her house
4. You could talk to her parents
 
1. Could you close the door?
2. Would you explain it one more time
3. Could you be quite?
4. Would you marry me?
 
Day 20
 
1. You should call her now
2. You should have called her yesterday
3. they should have woken up earlier this morning
4. he should not have been late this morning
5. i should not have come last night
 
Day 21
 
1. You could have told me yesterday
2. Real Madrid could have won last night
3. Andi might have been in the Agus's house last night
4. Mira may be in the Nita's house now
5. They must be hiding something
6. He must have been studying, when you called this morning 
 
1. He must be at home now, he can not be at the office
2. You must be Andi's friend
3. He must be very angry, you must be patient
4. They must be playing football now
5. I must go, i can not help you
6. He can not have this Lamborghini
7. He can not be working
8. She can not be at home
9. She may not been at home last night
10. They must not know about this, i will tell them
 
day 23
last page 155
 
Day 24
 
1. My money was stolen last night when i was sleeping
2. He is in the hospital now, he was hit by an ojek
3. This room must be cleaned now
4. That is your fault, you will be punished
5. They money has been transferred to your bank account
6. That old building is being renovated
7. This tool can be used for anything
8. This house is equipped by CCTV
9. These programs are sponsored by me
10. Her house was robbed, the computer and the tv were taken
 
1. My money was not stolen last night
2. Was he hit by an ojek?
3. This room must not be cleaned
4. Will you be punished?
5. The money has not been transferred
6. Is that old building being renovated?
7. This tool can not be used for anything
8. Is this house equipped by cctv?
9. These programs are not sponsored by me
10. Was his house robbed? what was taken?
 
Day 25
 
1. There is a motor bike and there are two cars
2. There is money in the left pocket
3. There were a lot of people yesterday
4. There was an accident last night
5. This plant needs a lot of water
6. She has a lot of friends here
7. There is something in your eyes
8. Don't worry, i still have a little money
9. i have some books, you can borrow them
10. There are a lot of students in the room
 
1. Is there a motor bike? Are there any car?
2. There is not any money in the pocket
3. There were not many people yesterday
4. Was there an accident last night?
5. This plant doesn't need much water
6. Does he have many friends?
7. There is nothing in your eyes
8. Do you have any money?
9. I don't have any books about finance
10. Is there any students in the room?
 
1. There is no bike in the garage
2. There is no money in the left pocket
3. There were no people yesterday
4. There was no accident last night
5. This plant needs no water
6. He has no friends here
7. There is no students in the room
 
Day 27
 
1. If i were taller, i would be a model
2. i she were not playing tennis, i would borrow her racket
3. If he have shoes, he would be playing futsal with his friends now
 
Day 28
 
1. If he were sleeping now, i would woke him up
2. If he had been sleeping when i came last night, i would have waken him up
 
If he had not been reading that book, i would have borrowed it
 
If he were not using that laptop, i would take it to the campus
If he had not been using that laptop, i would have taken it to the campus 
 
Bagian 3:
 
1. if you were at home, i would stop by
2. if you had been at home, i would have stopped by
3. if i knew English, i would be able to speak with foreigners
4. if nita were here, we would be singing duet
5. if i were Andi, i would call Ria now
6. if my parents had not forbidden me, i would have been swimming when tsunami hit 
7. If you had listened to me, you would not have been late
8. If i had not been sick, i would have gone to school
9. If ria had not been sleeping, i would have taken her to the cinema
10. if my friends were here, i would not be swimming alone
11. if it had been raining last night, i would not have gone out
12. If he had not picked me up this morning, i would not have come
13. The students who had not come yesterday, 
 
183
 
 
Bagian 2 Day 1
1. It was not me
2. I am agree
3. he hasn't come
4. it is impossible
5. i am fine
6. it is going fine
7. he is watching a movie
8. They are watching a movie
9. that is cool
10. those are cool
11. i have eaten
 
1. where do you live? where do you work?
2. where do you want to go?
3. Have you met Andi?
4. How is the book? have you read it? 
5. Where is my car? it is being washed
6. Where is my car? have you fixed it?
 
1. he lives with me
2. my phone is broken, i will repair it tomorrow
3. Do you have an email? can you send the email today?
4. Have you prepared the files? Can you send them now?
5. he is stubborn, he has warned many times
6. her house is far from here, you better call her first
7. I dont understand, please explain it one more time
8. i haven't finished yet, i am tired, i will continue it tomorrow
9. It is hot here, please open the door, is it hot there?
10. It is mine, that is yours, do want to change it?
 
Noun Part 1
 
1. Jakarta is the capital of Indonesia
2. Water is very important for life
3. Thanks for your coming
4. He can't control his anger
5. We need your advice
 
1. Sitting here is very enjoyable
2. Sitting in this cafe with friends is very enjoyable
3. Sitting in this cafe with friends every weekend eases my mind
4. Sleeping too much is not good for health
5. Mastering English can help your career
6. Letting him alone tonight will be better
7. Stealing is considered a serious crime in this country
8. Walking for 30 minutes every day prevents osteoporosis
9. Drawing is my hobby since elementary school
10. Smoking is prohibited in this room
 
1. They are talking in the living room
2. Talking with her is so boring
3. Talk to her, maybe she can help
4. Studying through this channel is very helpful
5. Study tonight, dont make excuses
6. Going with her will make you bored
7. Go to school now, dont be late
8. This is very important, listen to me carefully
9. Listening to English songs can enrich your vocabulary
10. They are listening to a radio
 
1. Have you sent the money? When did you send it?
2. The kid was found yesterday, she was locked up in a house
3. The thieves were caught last night when they were robbing a bank
4. How is the book? Have you read it? Is it good?
5. Be Patient, Be strong, let it go
6. Let her go, or i will kick your ass
7. Trust me, everything will be okay
8. Its cold, what do you think we should eat?
9. If you are still jealous, i will go, i am serious
10. it is too late, we cant do anything now
 
page 36
 
Noun part 2
 
1. working with them teaches me a lot of things
2. i have been working with them for two years
3. Being respectful to parents is an obligation
4. we must be respectful to the teachers too
5. He will be a soldier
6. Being a soldier is his ambition
7. being washed everyday makes his car look now
8. The car must be washed everyday
9. the car is being washed
10. we are studying English
11. studying English through this channel is very helpful
 
1. talking is easy, everyone can do that
2. by the way, how old is she?
3. listening to him only wastes your time, go home
4. i heard you got a scholarship, is it true?
5. when will you leave? how long will you be there?
6. it looks good, may i try it?
7. it sounds interesting, could i join?
8. it is delicious, how much does it cost?
9. thinking of you can make me crazy
10. i think you are right
 
1. Waking up earlier in the morning is good
   it is good to wake up earlier in the morning
2. swimming is my hobby
   it is my hobby to swim
3. listening to this music is very relaxing
   it is very relaxing to listen to this music
4. learning English is easy
   it is easy to learn English 
5. passing this road at night can be very dangerous
   it can be very dangerous to pass this road at night
 
1. smoking in this area is forbidden
   it is forbidden to smoke in this area
2. playing with fire is dangerous for children
   it is dangerous for children to play with fire
3. walking for 30 minutes is good for health
   it is good for health to walk for 30 minutes
4. sleeping at least 8 hours a day is very recommended
   it is very recommended to sleep at least 8 hours a day 
5. flying with Garuda is more comfortable
   it is more comfortable to fly with Garuda
 
page 45 
 
Day 5 Verb part 1
 
1. She is learning to cook, i want to accompany her, because cooking is fun
2. dont try to lie, you have promised to come, come on time, dont be late
3. i am not lying, i will try to come tonight, but dont ask me to promise
4. i can not swim, he is teaching me to swim, after this i will teach him to drive
5. she doesn't need to call, she doesn't need to explain everything, we want her to prove it
 
1. we have decided to be together to face this problem
2. she needs your commitment not money, she is not a gold digger, she will come to see you today
3. they promised not to smoke anymore, they are ready be punished if they smoke again
4. i am here to study not to play, i am not angry, i want you to understand
5. he is trying to be number 1 not number 2, we will support him to be successful
 
1. if you dont admit stealing that money, we have to arrest and  interrogate you
2. i plan to visit Andi next week, i miss talking and walking around with him
 
1. i regret not being honest to her, now she has gone, i cant imagine living without her
2. i you have finished talking, call me soon, i need to explain something, it is important
 
1. The doctor advised drinking a lot of water
1. The doctor advised me to drink a lot of water
 
2. The guards does not allow parking here
2. The guards does not allow us to park here
 
1. Did you watch them play yesterday?
2. When i came home last night, i heard someone scream
3. Can you feel the land shaking now?
 
1. Ketika saya sedang berbicara, dia tetap menginterupsi saya
2. mengapa kamu menatap saya sepeti itu?
3. dia tidak tahu bagaimana cara menyalakan mesin ini
4. saya belum pernah melihat Ridho memakai jeans
6. pernahkah kamu dengar ria menyanyi
7. Andi tidak memperbolehkan merokok di ruangannya
8. Andi tidak mmeperbolehkan kita merokok di ruangannya
9. Ketika aku dating, mereka semua pura pura tidur
10. aku melihat dia kemarin, tetapi dia pura pura tidak melihat aku
11. maaf aku lupa telpon kamu semalam
12. berapa kali sudah aku beritahu kamu untuk tidak telpon saya lagi?
 
Latihan 13 Halaman 62
 
Adjective / kata sifat part 1
 
1. All weapons will be destroyed
2. All seized weapons will be destroyed
2. Those children are my students
   Those singing children are my students
3. The car has been taken to the office
   The stolen car has been taken to he police office
4. Give your seat to that woman
   Give your seat to that standing woman
5. They are waiting in the waiting room
6. She is washing with the washing machine
 
1. Citra is a whitening lotion
   Citra is a skin whitener
   Citra is a skin whitening lotion
2. Iraq and Iran are oil exporting countries
3. Jokowi is a people chosen President
4. PLN is state owned company
5. I need a cleaning liquid
   I need a floor cleaning liquid
   I need a floor cleaner
6. That house is empty
   That yellow painted house is empty 
 
1. I dont believe, the girl is from Indonesia
   I dont believe, the blue eyed girl is from Indonesia
2. The baby will be adopted by a business man
   The three fingered baby will be adopted by a cars selling business man
3. A car has been bought by a woman
   A two wheeled car has been bought by a red dressed wowan
 
Adjective Part 2
 
1. The woman who is walking with her husband is my teacher
2. The students that will come must be tested
3. The tourists who are from the US are sleeping
4. The book that was bought last night had been stolen
5. Do you know the man who is talking with Ria?
6. I didn't like the food which was served last night
7. The items which have been bought can't be returned
8. He doesn't want the toy which was bought last night
9. The building which is being renovated is a mosque
10. You should have bought the jacket which was on sale last night
 
1. The woman walking with her husband is my teacher
2. The students who will come must be tested
3. The tourists from the US are sleeping
4.

Terakhir Page 71

I am trying to help you. I go to school. She goes to work. I will go to school. I don’t believe you seriously. I don’t like you anymore. Will you help me? There is a room for you on the second floor. 

Adjective part 1

1. All weapons will be destroyed
2. All seized weapons will be destroyed
3. The children are my students
4. The singing children are my students
5. The car has been taken to the office
6. The stolen car has been taken to the police office
7. Give your seat to that woman
8. Give your seat to that standing woman
9. They are waiting in the waiting room
10. She is washing her hands with that washing machine

1. Citra is a whitening lotion
2. Citra is a skin whitener
3. Citra is a skin whitening lotion
4. Iraq and Iran are oil-exporting countries
5. Jokowi is a people chosen president
6. PLN is a state owned company
7. i need a cleaning liquid
8. i need a floor cleaning liquid
9. i need a floor cleaner
10. that house is empty
11. that yellow painted house is empty

1. i dont believe, that girl is from Indonesia
2. I dont believe, the blue eyed girl is from Indonesia
3. the baby will be adopted by a businessman
4. the three fingered baby will be adopted by a cars selling businessman
5. A car has been bought by a woman
6. A two wheeled car has been bought by a red dressed woman


Adjective part 2

1. the woman who is walking with her husband is my teacher
2. The students who will come must be tested
3. The tourists who are from US are sleeping
4. The book that was bought last night has been stolen
5. Do you know the man who is talking to Ria?
6. I didn’t like the food which was served last night
7. The items that have been bought can’t be returned
8. He doesn’t want the toy that was bought last night
9. The building that is being renovated is a mosque
10. You should have bought a jacket that was on sale last night 

1. The woman walking with her husband is my teacher
2. The students who will come must be tested
3. The tourists from US are sleeping
4. The book bought last night has been stolen
5. Do you know the man talking to Ria?
6. I didn’t like the food served last night
7. The items having been bought can’t be returned
8. He doesn’t want the toy bought last night
9. The building being renovated is a mosque
10. You should have bought a jacket on sale last night 

1. The money in the left pocket is yours
2. The man living next to my room has a Harley
3. The woman sitting on the corner is waiting for me
4. The books published two weeks ago have been sold
5. The food being served looks perfect
6. Don’t use a laptop in my room
7. Do you know a man passing this street every morning?
8. I don’t know the woman talking with Andi
9. Please move the car parked in front of my house
10. He doesn’t like music played by his DJ

Adjective part 3

1. She will return the money that she borrowed tomorrow
2. I disagree with the idea that Rio just said 
3. The person whose video you are watching is Mr. Jems
4.  Can you send the address that you took from Nia?
5. The drink that you bought contains aspartame
6. Rina is speaking with the man that we met last night
7. The man whose child is arrested works at the hotel
8. He didn’t eat the cake that you gave last night
9.  Is he the man that you are waiting for?


1. Perempuan yang kita temui kemarin malam disini, dia sedang mencari kamu
2. Perempuan yang kita temui kemarin malam sedang mencari kamu
3. Sudahkah kamu melihat ular berkepala dua? Saya punya videonya
4. Siapa tahu perempuan yang sedang diwawancarai sekarang?
5. Kita tidak punya akses ke area yang terbatas
6. Pengering rambut saya rusak, saya butuh pengering rambut baru
7. Penulis yang bukunya kamu baca sekarang ada di TV
8. Video yang diupload Andi dua bulan lalu sedang viral
9. Lelaki yang videonya menjadi viral adalah Andi
10. Murd - murid yan sedang bermain membuat banyak suara berisik
11. Guru yang murid - muridnya sedang membuat suara berisik, sedang tidur

Adjective part 4

1. The movie we watched last night was not interesting, was it?
2. The service given by this restaurant is very satisfying
3. Is travelling with a motorbike challenging to you?
4. Trust me, the interested parties will call you
5. Working with him is boring, aren’t you bored?
6. The lesson being explained is confusing
7. You are still confused, aren’t you?
8. The victim found after three days is quite worrying
9. He feels satisfied with the answer given by Rina
10. I am worried about the children living on the street



START AGAIN FROM DAY 1

1. I watch TV every night
2. I am hungry
3. He is smart
4. She watches TV every night
5. She is beautiful
6. He plays piano
7. They play guitar
8. They are talented

1. I am an employee
2. I work from monday to friday
3. I am working
4. They are athletes
5. They practice twice a week
6. They are practicing
7. She is a teacher
8. She teaches English
9. She is teaching

1. She is sick
2. She has been sick for three days
3. She takes aspirin once a day
4. She has eaten
5. She is sleeping
6. I am in Bali
7. I have been in Bali for a week
8. I visit Bali twice a year
9. I have visited Tanah Lot ad Ubud
10. I am visiting Kutai now

1. I am in the library now
2. I have been in the library since two hours ago
3. I read in the library every weekend
4. I am reading a book about health
5. I have been reading three books so far
6. I have read books about education and politics

1. He is a businessman
2. He sells a lot of products
3. He has sold five products today
4. He is explaining a product
5. He has been doing this for two years
6. He has been in this business for two years

1. They are lazy, and they watch TV every day
2. He is diligent, and he studies every day
3. He is waiting, and he has been waiting since morning
4. He is tired, and he is sleeping
5. I have finished, I am sleepy
6. He has been playing since morning
7. I am busy, and I am working
8. He is mad, and he has gone
9. I am at home, and I am alone
10. We have been fasting for a week

1. I am a writer
2. I write novels
3. I am writing
4. They are chefs
5. They cook every day
6. They are cooking
7. She is a singer
8. She sings Dangdut
9. She is singing

1. I am a painter
2. I paint people
3. I am painting
4. I have painted Monalisa
5. They are football players
6. They play for Real Madrid
7. They are playing now
8. They have won some championships
9. He is a programmer
10. They make programs for the office
11. They are making a program
12. They have made more than 100 programs

1. I have arrived
2. I am here
3. I have been here since morning
4. He has gone to the hospital
5. He is at the Hospital
6. He has been at the hospital since an hour ago
7. They have graduated
8. They are jobless now
9. They have been jobless for a year

1. I am a collector
2. I collect stamps
3. Now I am collecting stamps from Europe
4. I have been in Europe for a week
5. I have collected stamps from Indonesia, Malaysia, and Singapore
6. I have been collecting stamps since junior high school

1. She is an architect
2. She builds houses, bridges, etc.
3. She is building a dam in Jakarta
4. She has been in Jakarta for six months
5. She has built seven houses and seven bridges so far
6. She has been doing this for over 20 years

1. They are friends
2. They have been friends for ten years
3. They have gone to many countries
4. They teach English
5. They are teaching now
6. They have been teaching since an hour ago

Latihan 7 PDF
1. They are in the living room, they are waiting, they have been waiting for two hours
2. She is in the bathroom. She has been in the bathroom for an hour
3. I have taken a bath, she is taking a bath, she has been taking a bath for an hour
4. I am eating, they have eaten, they are sleeping, they have been sleeping for an hour ago
5. They have gone to Bali, and they go to Bali every week; they have been to Bali more than ten times
6. They have gone to Aussie, he goes to Aussie every year, They have been to Australia five times
7. I am in Bandung now, I have been in Bandung since last year, i live in Pasteur
8. She is in Jakarta now, They have been in Jakarta for the last week, she lives in Pasar Minggu
9. I am a chef, i work here, i have been working here for three years, now i am preparing dinner
10. He is an office boy, He works here, He has been working here for three years, now he is cleaning the kitchen

Youtube SImple English Day 3
1. We need them, and they need us
2. I like her, and she likes me
3. He is looking at you
4. We are here for him
5. She has been looking for you for an hour
6. I have messaged her many times
7. You have disappointed us
8. We are talking with them
9. She has called me, she is in Bandung, she has been in Bandung since yesterday
10. They are here and they are studying with us 

1. Tia and Ita are absent today, they are sick
2. Iwan is absent today, he is sick, he is sleeping
3. Ria has graduated, she works at a bank
4. Nia and Roi are in Jakarta and Rais is in Bandung
5. Yuri is studying, Ana and Nia are watching TV
6. Dani is sick, he has been sick for 3 days
7. Ria is watching, she has been watching since morning
8. Yuli has bought a necklace, it is very nice
9. Dian is wearing earrings, they are nice
10. A bird is singing, it sings every day, i like that bird

PDF Day 3
Latihan 8

1. I know him, and he is close with me
2. We have met them, they are very friendly
3. She is very talented, and i need her
4. She is here for you but you look sad
5. I am talking with them, and they are fine
6. He has told me but i forget
7. We have been waiting for them for two hours and they are still at home
8. They are waiting for you, they are in the living room
9. She has warned us, and we understand
10. I love her and she is happy with me

Latihan 9
1. Andi lives with me, he is a teacher, he is teaching now
2. Andi and I live together, we are teachers, we are teaching now
3. Ria has eaten, she is sleeping, she has been sleeping since an hour ago
4. Ria and Ira have eaten, they are sleeping, they have been sleeping since an hour ago
5. A dog is barking, it has been barking for an hour, i hate it
6. Two dogs are barking, they have been barking for an hour, i hate them
7. I am watching an eagle, it has made a nest, it is very big
8. I am watching some eagles, they have made a nest, they are very big
9. Nia is very friendly, everybody knows her
10. Rita and Rani are very friendly, all people know them
11. Roy has bought two cars, they are very expensive, he likes them
12. Rizky and I have bought a car, it is quite cheap but we like it

Youtube Day 4
1. She is in Bali
2. She has been in Bali since last week
3. We study every monday and thursday
4. We are studying four main sentences 
5. We have been studying four main sentences for five minutes
6. We have studied tenses

1. Those flowers are very beautiful
2. This book is very good, i like it
3. I have sent this message to her
4. Andi has received that letter
5. Nia and I are cleaning this room
6. Iwan is fixing that old car
7. That old man is still strong
8. That black dog barks every night
9. They have bought this old building
10. That man has been working at this mining company for two years

1. That man is very friendly, he lives in that big house
2. Those people are very friendly, i meet them in this park every day
3. That red flower is very beautiful. I like that because it smells good
4. Those flowers are beautiful, I like them because they smell good

Youtube Day 5
1. Anwar has read your message
2. Our friend has been waiting for us
3. My new handphone is broken
4. That is Mira’s laptop
5. Those are her stuff
6. This is my friend’s car
7. I have deleted our old photos
8. Rizky likes her new hair
9. Her parents are talking with them
10. My father’s friend have bought that big house

1. Rio’s sister is pretty. i like her eyes
2. My uncle is very handsome, Rita likes his smile
3. That big elephant uses its trunk to take the food
4. Those small elephants, use their trunk to take the food

1. This is mine, yours is right there
2. Rina has taken hers, this is yours
3. My picture is better than yours
4. Mine is better than yours
5. This is ours, and that is theirs
6. They are comparing mine with his
7. This is Iwan’s money, and that is Dian’s
8. This laptop is mine, and that laptop is yours
9. These books are mine, and those books are yours
10. That black pen is yours, mine is out of ink

PDF Day 4, 5

Latihan 10

1. That red car has been there since last night. That is broken. Andi is repairing that
2. I have bought those old cars. They are broken. Ahmad and Saleh are repairing them
3. This motorbike is cool. This is very expensive. Mario uses it to go to the campus every day
4. These bags are good. They are quite cheap. Ria and Nia use them to go to the campus every day
5. That man is very rich. He is also friendly. We meet him in this cafe almost every day.
6. Those people are from Bali. They are staying in this hotel. They have been staying in this hotel for a week
7. This movie is very good. Rani likes it. She has been watching it many times.
8. These books are good. Rais and I like them. We have read all of them
9. Wati has cleaned this room. This room looks very tidy, and now Rian is painting it
10. Dani and Ari have painted those rooms. They look better now. Ruri and Rina are decorating them.

Latihan 11
1. Ria and Andi look confused. They are looking for their money
2. Agus lives in Jakarta, while his parents live in Bandung
3. Ria works in a hotel. Her husband works in a bank
4. Jems’s books are good. His books are available in the store now
5. Ria’s voice is very good. Her voice sounds like Raisa’s voice
6. Your car is cool. I like its color
7. Nina has bought Nia’s laptop because she likes its color
8. I like this song; the lyrics are touching
9. This is my room. This is my friend’s room. This is Rio’s room, and this is Rio’s brother’s room
10. My office is in Jakarta, and my father’s office is in Bandung

Latihan 12
1. This car is mine, and that black car is hers
2. Rio’s writing is good, but Rina likes yours
3. Our room is big, but their room is bigger
4. Their room is bigger than ours
5. I have tasted Rita’s cooking, and it is more delicious than mine
6. Rina’s hair is very long. It is longer than Ria’s hair
7. I am using Andi’s laptop. I have been using it for a week because mine is broken
8. I like your painting, because it looks real
9. Mine is more interesting than yours because it is more colorful
10. Your watches are the same as mine, but yours are lighter

Day 6
1. I have found the money
2. They are talking with her
3. I have read the book and i like it
4. Rita is preparing her speech
5. We have been waiting for her for two hours
6. The snake has swallowed its prey alive
7. Armand has called his mom and talked with her
8. I like Rios’s car, especially the color
9. Rio and his friend are watching a movie, it is about an adventure
10. Ohh the movie is very inspiring, i have watched it

Latihan 13
1. This is a mango tree and that is a lemon tree
2. Trees prevent erosion and produce oxygen
3. I am alone tonight, i need a friend
4. Vegetables are good for health
5. Bears are stronger than tigers
6. I am a teacher and he is a lecturer
7. Teachers are heroes. So, my english teacher is a hero
8. Gatot kaca is a super hero from Indonesia
9. Nia is in the terrace, she is reading a comic. She likes comics
10. Andi and Rio are in the living room. They are watching movie. They like movies

Latihan 14
1. My father and his friend have watched the movie and they like it
2. My mom and her friends have tried the recipes and they like them
3. My cat is cleaning its body with its tongue
4. The man is waiting for his wife. He has been waiting for her almost two hours
5. The woman is waiting for her husband, she has been waiting for him more than two hours
6. A chick is looking for its mom. It looks confused
7. They have caught a snake, the snake is very big, they have put it to its cage
8. The old man opens his store at the morning and close it at the afternoon
9. The door is locked, I have lost its key
10. She has bought me a present, it is very expensive

Youtube Day 7

1. He doesn’t understand, but he is not stupid
2. I am not like them, i am not arrogant
3. They are not afraid, and they don’t care
4. I don’t know her, and she don’t live here
5. She is not alone, she doesn’t need them

1. I know them although they are not my friends
2. I have told him, that i am not Andi’s brother
3. Dani is not a soldier, but a police
4. That is not my money, that is Iwan’s
5. I am not yours, and you are not mine

1. tidak
2. bukan
3. bukan
4. tidak
5. tidak
6. bukan

1. I am not close with Ria, I dont know much about her, because i am not her friend
2. He is not a musician, He doesnt know music, so he is not interested in your musc
3. Agus and Rais are not here, they dont work here because they are not our employees

Youtube Day 8

1. He is not using your laptop, he is using mine
2. They are not studying, they are watching tv
3. I am not talking about you 

1. They are not exercising now, because they dont exercise every night
2. I am not teaching, i dont teach on thursday and saturday
3. He doesnt study a Sunday, so he is not studying now, he is sleeping

1. I have been here since morning, but they havent arrived yet
2. I have told everything but he hasn’t understood
3. He has been to Bali, I havent to Bali
4. I have told Mita but I havent told Dian
5. Andi and Iwan have done, but Rita hasn’t done

Youtube Day 9
 
1. Go home
2. Close the door
3. Be brave
4. Be polite
5. Be a man
6. Be yourself
 
1. Don't be sad and don't cry 2. Be honest, don't lie to me 3. Don't worry, be happy 4. Be patient, don't be angry 5. Come on time tomorrow, don't be late
 
1. I am not her, because i am not crazy 2. She doesn't understand, she hasn't watched that new movie 3. Let him alone, don't disturb him 4. I haven't met her yet 5. I haven't seen her since morning 6. Don't use that laptop, because it is not yours 7. Try again, don't be despair 8. Call him now, don't be afraid 9. I don't know much about him 10. They are not doing their homework
 
1. That red bag is not mine 2. Don't blame her, she doesn't know anything 3. Bring the flash tomorrow, i need it 4. She hasn't returned the book 5. I haven't eaten but i am not hungry 6. Don't trust that girl, she is a liar 7. Turn off the lamp and lock the door 8. I am not thinking about her 9. She doesn't agree but she is not mad, don't worry, she is not them, you haven't known her 10. I don't agree but i am not mad, don't be afraid, i am not them, she hasn't known me
 
Latihan 15
 
1. I am not hungry, i don't eat meats 2. You are not polite, you don't have manners 3. We are not thirsty, we don't drink beers 4. They are not like you, they don't like you 5. He is not interested, he doesn't want it 6. She is not angry, she doesn't hate you 7. That dog is not vicious, it doesn't bite 8. Ria is not pretty, she doesn't impress for me 9. Andi and Rais are not naughty, they don't bully 10. Narcotics are not good, it doesn't help
 
Latihan 16
 
1. I am a teacher, i am not a lecturer 2. You are just my friend, you are not my lover 3. We are from Indonesia, we are not from Malaysia 4. They are soldiers, they are not police 5. He is a man, not a woman 6. She is a lawyer, she is not a doctor 7. That dog is theirs, that is not mine 8. Ria is a singer, she is not a dancer 9. Andi and Rais are from UI, they are not from ITB 10. Narcotics are dangerous. narcotics is not a solution 11. I am not an angel, i am not perfect, and i don't have wings 13. He is not an angel, he is not perfect, and he doesn't have wings 14. They are not angels, they are not perfect, they don't have wings
 
Latihan 17
 
1. I am not working, i am sitting in the terrace 2. You are not helping me, you are blowing my concentration 3. We are not playing basketball, we are playing soccer 4. They are not studying, they are watching 5. He is not talking with Rita, he is talking with Nia 6. She is not cooking, she is cleaning the kitchen 7. That dog is not barking to us, it is barking to them 8. Ria is not having dinner with me, she is having dinner with Rio 9. Andi and Rais are not doing their homework, they are playing PS 10. Narcotics are not curing them, narcotics are killing them slowly
 
Latihan 18
 
1. I have eaten but i haven't taken a bath 2. You have taken a bath but you haven't eaten 3. We have been to Europe, but we haven't been to Bali 4. They have been to Bali, but they haven't been to Europe 5. He has graduated but he hasn't got a job 6. She has got a job, although she hasn't graduated 7. That dog has run away and that dog hasn't retuned 8. Ria has told me but she hasn't told them 9. Andi and Rais have visited Ancol but they haven't visited Monas 10. Narcotics have killed hundreds people, narcotics haven't killed them 11. I am not eating, i haven't eating but i am not hungry and i don't eat that foods, i am not kids 12. She is not eating, she hasn't eaten but she is not hungry and she doesn't eat that food, she is not a child 13. They are not eating, they haven't eaten but they are not hungry, and they don't eat that foods, they are not a child

Latihan 19

1. Come to my house tomorrow, bring your friends
2. Call them now, they have been waiting since an hour agoi
3. Read the statement slowly, we are not deaf
4. Be yourself, and be confident
5. They need your help, help them, do something
6. Be patient, be strong, we are here for you
7. Be careful, call us when you get there
8. Close the door and open the window, turn off the lamp and turn on the AC
9. Be my friend on Facebook, and follow my twitter
10. I know, You are lying to me, be honest
11. Love Indonesia, hate drugs

Latihan 20

1. Come to my house tomorrow, don’t be late and don’t bring your friends
2. Talk to me now, don’t lie to me, be open
3. Be calm, don’t talk and don’t move
4. Be happy, don’t be sad, and don’t cry
5. Don’t be scared, be brave, don’t be a coward
6. Be confident, don’t be shy, don’t dissapoint us
7. Be patient, don’t be angry, don’t scream
8. Don’t look at me and don’t touch me
9. Don’t forget your homework, do it now, don’t be lazy
10. Be optimistic, don’t be pesimistic, think positive, don’t think negative
11. Don’t use drugs, don’t be stupid, don’t destroy your future

Latihan 21

1. Don’t be naughty, be nice to your friends, love them and don’t hurt them
2. I don’t know much about them, i haven’t met them
3. Ria doesn’t like you, leave her alone, and don’t call her again
4. Andi doesn’t know about this, don’t tell him, wait until tomorrow
5. I have been at the airport for two hours but the airplaine hasn’t landed yet
6. Don’t ask about that, i am not interested, don’t make me angry
7. Actually, i am not angry and i don’t hate anyone, don’t missunderstand
8. I am not your slave, open your eyes and don’t treat me like this
9. Don’t worry and don’t be scared, he is not a child
10. The room is not big, it doesn’t look clean, i don’t like it
11. I am not crying, i am not sad, and i don’t need you, i am not yours anymore, don’t message me again, i haven’t forgiven you yet
12. She is not crying, she is not sad and she doesn’t need you, she is not yours anymore, don’t message her again, she hasn’t forgiven you yet
13. They are not crying, they are not sad, and they don’t need you, they are not yours anymore, don’t message them again, they haven’t forgiven you yet

Youtube Day 10

1. Are you sure?
2. Does iwan live here?
3. Am I late?
4. Is he your friend?
5. Do you know her?

1. Is your father sleeping?
2. Are your friends talking about politics?
3. Are we waiting for her?

1. Has she come back from Jakarta?
2. Have you been to Bali?
3. Have you told her?

1. That red car is yours
2. Your father works in that company
3. You have read my message
4. She has called you back
5. They are talking about that again
6. Those books are yours
7. You are fine
8. She is holding something
9. She knows about this
10. You know this man

1. Is that red car yours?
2. Does your father work in that company?
3. have you read my message?
4. Has she called you back?
5. Are they talking about that again?
6. Are those books yours?
7. Are you fine?
8. Is she holding something?
9. Does she know about this?
10. Do you know this man?

Youtube Day 11

1. Yes, i am sure / Yes, I am
2. Yes, Iwan lives here / Yes, He does
3. Yes, I am late / yes, i am
4. Yes, he is your friend / Yes, he is
5. Yes, I know him / Yes, i do

1. Yes, He is sleeping / Yes, he is. No, he is not sleeping / No he is not
2. yes, they are talking aboutn politics. No, they are not talking about politics
3. Yes, we are waiting for him. No, we aren’t waiting for him

1. yes, he has come back from jakarta. No, he hasn’t
2. yes, i have been to Bali. No, i haven’t
3. Yes, i have told him. No, i haven’t

1. Yes, it is
2. Yes, he does
3. Yes, i have
4. Yes, he has
5. Yes, they are
6. Yes, they are
7. Yes, i am
8. Yes, he is
9. Yes, he does
10. Yes, i do

Youtube Day 12

1. Do you like football? yes, i do
2. Do you have pets? Yes, i do
3. Have you found it? Yes, i have
4. Does she have a boyfriend? No, she doesn’t
5. Has she eaten? No, she hasn’t
6. Do you have plan? Yes, I do
7. Have you been abroad? Yes, i have
8. Do you live here? Yes, i do
9. Are you happy? Yes, i am
10. Is she from Bandung? Yes, she is

1. I play a guitar and she plays a drum
2. She is sick, she has been sick for a week
3. They are debating. They have been debating for two hours
4. I like it, but she doesn’t like it
5. Trust me, i am not lying
6. She hasn’t come yet, don’t wait for him
7. He doesn’t have money, and he hasn’t eaten yet
8. Does he have money? has he eaten?
9. Are you listening to me?
10. Do you have Rani’s number? have you called her?

Latihan 22

1. I have sent the e-mail, have you read it?
2. We are Ridho’s friends, we are looking for him, does he live here?
3. Are they studying now? So, do they study everyday?
4. Are you scared? Don’t be afraid, the dog is not vicious, be relax
5. Is Andi sleeping? if he is sleeping, don’t be noisy, play outside
6. Have you checked the other store? Is the price cheaper?
7. Is this yours? Do you want to sell it?
8. Ira is not here, Is she with you right now? Is she wearing a necklace? Tell her to call me now
9. I am not interested, are you interested? Do you want to buy it?
10. Is Rais at home? Has he cleaned his bed room? 

Latihan 23

1. Is your mother cooking? Yes, she is / No, she is not
2. Is your book missing? Yes, it is. No, it is not
3. Are these toys yours? yes, they are / No, they are not
4. Have Rais and Rio left? Yes, they have / No, they haven’t
5. Does Ria know about this? Yes, she does / No, she doesn’t
6. Do you understand? Yes, I do / No, I don’t
7. Have you understood? yes, i have / No, i Haven’t
8. Are you okay? Yes, I am / No, I am not
9. Are Rina and Rani sisters? Yes, they are / No, they aren’t
10. Are Agus’s parents sleeping? Yes, they are / No, they aren’t

Latihan 24
1. I have a dream and i have told everyone
2. She has been living here for 5 years, she has a lot of friends here
3. I don’t have money and i haven’t eaten yet
4. She haven’t decided yet because she doesn’t have the courage
5. Do you have a question? Have you understood? 
6. Does he have money? Has he paid off his debt?

Youtube Day 13

1. Andi is sleeping, Ria and Rani are watching TV
2. When i came last night, Andi was sleeping, He had been sleeping for two hours
3. I have been working in this company, since two years ago
4. I came at 10 last night, but they had gone
5. You are late, they have locked the door
6. I came late yesterday, they had locked the door
7. I have been here since morning
8. I had been here before they came
9. I saw Nia yesterday, she was sitting alone at the park
10. Before the police arrived, they had gone

1. I wasn’t there last night
2. When i came, he wasn’t sleeping, he was playing outside
3. When she offered me this job last year, i hadn’t graduated yet

1. Were you there last night?
2. When you came, was he sleeping?
3. When he offered you this job last year, had you graduated yet?

Latihan 25

1. Andi works for me now, he worked for a foreign company before
2. Agus and Refi are absent today. Yesterday, they were absent too
3. Nia is studying. Last night i called her, she was studying too. She studies every night
4. You are always late. They have gone. Yesterday, when you came, they had gone too. Come earlier tomorrow
5. They are waiting, they have been waiting for two hours. Yesterday, when i passed by, they were waiting too, they were waiting for more than 5 hours
6. Last night we were at the mall, we saw Rio, he was walking with Ira
7. Sorry, when you called just now, i was walking with my father
8. We were late yesterday, when we arrived, the movie had started
9. When Ridho called you last week, he had been in Jakarta for a month
10. When i woke up this morning, Anto and Mario were in the living room, they were watching, Ria was in the kitchen, She was cooking, she had been cooking since 6 o’clock. Tia had left

Latihan 26

1. Andi was not here yesterday, he didn’t come, he was sick
2. Rio and I were here yesterday. We arrived before ashar but we didn’t see Mario
3. I didn’t meet them this morning, when i got there, they had left
4. He had prepared everything but you didn’t show up, he was very dissapointed
5. When you stopped by two days ago, they were not sleeping, they were watching at the second floor
6. When you called last week, Sinta hadn’t left, she was stiil in Jakarta
7. They came but you didn’t know because you were sleeping
8. Did you watch the movie last night? Was it good?
9. When you saw Ari and Ria last night, were they holding hands?
10. Before you left this morning, had you turned off all the lights?

Latihan 27

1. Did Rio come yesterday? yes, he did / no, he didn’t
2. Was Rio in your home last night? Yes, he was / No, he wasn’t
3. Was Rio bringing something? When you saw him just now? Yes he was / No, he wasn’t
4. Had Rio been there? When the show started? yes, he had / No, he hadn’t
5. When Ria and Nia were in Jakarta last year, Did they visit you? yes, they did / No, the didn’t
6. Were Ria and Nia in Jakarta last year? Yes, they were / No, they weren’t
7. Were Ria and Nia talking in the terrace? When the accident happened? Yes, they were / No, they weren’t
8. When you woke up this morning, had Ria and Nia left? Yes, they had / No, they hadn’t
9. Was you office located in Bandung before? Yes, it was / No, it wasn’t
10. When tsunami hit Aceh, had you graduated? Yes, i had / No, i hadn’t

Youtube Day 14

1. When i came yesterday, they had been studying for 30 minutes
2. If you come at 9 tonight, they will have been studying for 1 hour
3. They are playing PS now, they have been playing since morning
4. I am studying, Rina is sleeping, Roy and Ira are watching
5. When Dian came yesterday, I was studying, Rina was sleeping, Roy and Ira were watching
6. If you come at 8 tonight, i will be studying, Rina will be sleeping, Roy and Ira will be watching
7. You are late, Andi has left. if you come at this time tomorrow, he will have left too, so come earlier tomorrow
8. I was late yesterday, when i arrived, he had left
9. He is always late. yesterday, he was late, tomorrow, he will be late
10. i will be in Bali tonight, now I am in Japan Yesterday, i was in US
11. He calls me almost everyday, yesterday he called me in the morning, tomorrow he will call me again
12. i trust him
13. I trusted him but not anymore now

Latihan 28

1. I failed yesterday, but i will not give up. I will try tomorrow
2. He is sad, he doesn’t have money. Maybe he won’t come tonight
3. Will Rio go next week? Will Andi go too?
4. I didn’t sleep last night, tell them, i will be late today
5. I am sure, when you arrive tomorrow morning, he will be sleeping
6. Don’t call me between 7 and 9 tonight, i will be studying
7. If you visit them at 7 tomorrow, they will not be working, they will be watching
8. If you arrive at 8 tomorrow mornig, they will have left
9. Ria and Nia will come at 7 tomorrow, if you come at 9, they will have been waiting for 2 hours, come earlier!
10. I have been working in this company for more than three years now, by next month, i will have been working in here for exactly four years

Latihan 29
Now, Andi is watching TV. He hasn’t taken a bath. He has been watching for two hours, While Nia and I in the kitchen. We are preparing for dinner because our parents are not at home. They are out of town. They have been out of town for two days. They left two days ago and they will be back tomorrow. By the way, we have made bakso and soto because i like bakso but i don’t like soto while Nia likes Soto but she doesn’t like bakso. Agus has cleaned the living room, Rina and Sinta have prepared the table, we will eat dinner with Eko and Eka. Eko is a businessman and Eka is a doctor. They are not strangers to us, they are our old friends. We have been friends since senior high school and now Roi is talking with them.

Eka: We are very happy today, and we will be happier if you come to my house next week
Eko: We will celebrate our wedding anniversary. We have been maried for over five years now, so, next week we will have been married for 6 years
Eka: Right, we will have been living together for six years next week
Roi: Congratulations, sure, we will come
Nia: But we don’t know the address, Is your new house far from here?
Eka: Our new house is not far from here, but we haven’t moved yet. We still live in my parent’s house
Eko: We will pick you up at Saturday after Ashar
Nia: Don’t come at 4, We will be preparing a dinner for our parents because they will be out of town for two days
Roi: Me too, i will not have finished my work at that time
Eko: I understand, If i come at 5.30, Will you have finished your work?
Roi: I will have finished at that time
Nia: Me too
Eko: Ok, i will come at 5.30. By the way, i haven’t heard from Rita, is she fine?
Nia: She is fine, last week i went to her house. When i got there, her house was locked
Eko: Had you called her before you came?
Nia: I hadn’t called yet, but some minutes later, her boys showed out and he opened the door for me. I entered, her daughter was watching, she hadn’t taken a shower yet, she had been watching for 10 minutes and Ria was in the kitchen, she was preparing the launch
Eko: When you arrived, Had her husband left for work?
Nia: Her husband had left, she was alone with her kids (Rama, Rury, and Raisa), her parents were out of town, they had been out of town fot two days.
Eko: Did you help her in the kitchen?
Nia: Sure, we made bakso and soto, i don’t like soto so i didn’t make a soto, Rita doesn’t like bakso, so she didn’t make a bakso
Eko: Her children?
Nia: They were laying down because Rama had cleaned the living room, Rury and Raisa had prepared the table, They were waiting for their dad
Eko: And then?
Nia: 30 minutes later, Rita’s husband came and we had lunch together

Youtube Day 15

1. Where are you?
2. Where did you go yesterday? Who did you go with?
3. What is he doing? Is he sleeping?
4. Why was she angry last night? Did you hurt her?
5. Why are you laughing? Am i funny?
6. How is your mother? Is she fine?
7. Who is he waiting for? Is he waiting for me?
8. What time will you go tomorrow? Whose car will you use?
9. Which shoes does she like? Which shoes do you like?
10. Where does she live? How long have you known her? How long have you been in friends? 

Youtube Day 16

1. Who wants money?
2. Who agrees with me?
3. How many people agree with me?
4. What makes you sad?
5. Which train goes to Jakarta?
6. Who has registered?
7. How many people have registered?

1. Who doesn’t want money?
2. Who doesn’t agree with me?
3. How many people don’t agree with me?
4. What doesn’t make you sad?
5. Which train doesn’t go to Jakarta?
6. Who han’t registered?
7. How many people haven’t registered?

1. Who accompanies you everyday?
2. Who accompanied you last night?
3. Who will accompany you tonight?

1. Who doesn’t accompany you every day?
2. Who didn’t accompany you last night?
3. Who will not accompany you tonight?

Latihan 30

1. Where is Andi? And Where are Nia and Ria? I have been looking for them everywhere but i haven’t found them
2. Where was Andi last night? And where were Nia and Ria last night? I came last night but i didn’t see them
3. Where do you live? Where do you work now? Where did you work before? Why did you quit? Why do you want this job? What do you know about this job? When will you come for interview?
4. Where does Rio live? Where does he work now? Where did he work before? Why did he quit? Why does he want this job? What does he know about this job? When will he come for interview?
5. What is Nani doing? Is he studying? What is he studying? Who is he studying with? How long have they been studying?
6. When you arrived yesterday, what was Nani doing? was he studying? What was he studying? Who was nani studying with? How long had they been studying?
7. Where did you go last night? Whose car did you use? Who did you go with? Why did you come home so late? Where is the car now? Have you returned the car? When will you return the car?
8. How is your parents? Are they fine? Are they in US or UK? How long have they been there? When will they come back? Have they called you? How many times a week do they call you?
9. Whose car is that? Don’t park there. Whose motors are those? Have you told them? When did you tell them? Why are they still parking their motors there? When will you tell them again?
10. Which countries have you visited? Which country did you visit first? Who did you travel with? Which countries will you visit this year? Which country will you visit first? Who will you travel with?